
#  overview.pod - Torrus configuration guide
#  Copyright (C) 2003  Christian Schnidrig
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

# $Id$
# Christian Schnidrig <christian.schnidrig@bluewin.ch>
#
#

=head1 Overview Plugin


=head2 Introduction

This plugin adds an alternative user interface to Torrus.
The main feature is that it
allows for creation of overview pages showing counters from
different parts of a tree. For example a page containing all
CPU usage counters of all network devices.

Other features are:

=over 2

=item * date and time picker

allowing for chosing of the vieving date and time. (In oder to take full 
advantage of this features one has to make sure the RRD files do keep 
full history data for longer then just a couple of days. For example 
to keep 2 years worth of history data:

=back

    <param name="rrd-create-rra">
	RRA:AVERAGE:0:1:209664
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.1:12:17472 RRA:MAX:0.1:12:17472 RRA:MIN:0.1:12:17472
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.1:288:1456 RRA:MAX:0.1:288:1456 RRA:MIN:0.1:288:1456
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.1:2016:416 RRA:MAX:0.1:2016:416 RRA:MIN:0.1:2016:416
    </param>

=over 2


=item * 'window' picker.

This allows for choosing the time
range which is to be displayed: day, week, month etc.

=item * show hidden checkbox.

Toggle display of hidden counters.

=item * auto-scale checkbox.

Toggle display between auto-scaling and fixed scaling.

=back

This plugin has been tested with Internet Explorer 6.0, Netscape 7.1,
and Mozilla 1.4. Other browsers were not tested and will most likely
not work.

=head2 Required Software (apart from Torrus)

=over 2

=item * Perl Modules

Apache::ASP http://www.apache-asp.org/

XML::Sablotron http://www.cpan.org/

XML::LibXSLT http://www.cpan.org/

=item * WebFx modules

Tab Pane http://webfx.eae.net/download/tabpane102.zip

Xtree (modified version is included in this plugin)

=item * jscalendar

Date Picker from http://sourceforge.net/projects/jscalendar/

=back

=head2 Installation

Unpack Torrus main distribution and the plugin in some directories.
From Torrus distribution directory, run

  ./configure --with-plugins=../torrus-plugin-overview-0.0.1
  make install

After Torrus installation has finished:

Install the perl module Apache::ASP acording to the instructions on
http://www.apache-asp.org/

Add the following lines to your apache config file (http.conf).
(Note: WEBPLAINDIR is /usr/local/torrus-xyz/web/plain by default):


  ScriptAlias /menu/ "WEBPLAINDIR/menu/"
  ScriptAlias /overviews/ "WEBPLAINDIR/overviews/"

  <Location /menu>
  SetHandler  perl-script
  PerlModule  Apache::ASP
  PerlHandler Apache::ASP
  PerlSetVar  Global /www/asp
  PerlSetVar  StateDir /tmp/asp
  PerlSetVar NoState 1
  PerlSetVar XSLTParser XML::Sablotron
  PerlSetVar XSLTParser XML::LibXSLT
  PerlSetVar XSLTMatch xml$
  PerlSetVar XSLT menu.xsl
  PerlSetVar RequestParams 1
  </Location>

  <Location /overviews>
  SetHandler  perl-script
  PerlModule  Apache::ASP
  PerlHandler Apache::ASP
  PerlSetVar  Global /www/asp
  PerlSetVar  StateDir /tmp/asp
  PerlSetVar NoState 1
  PerlSetVar XSLTParser XML::Sablotron
  PerlSetVar XSLTParser XML::LibXSLT
  PerlSetVar XSLTMatch xml$
  PerlSetVar XSLT overview.xsl
  PerlSetVar RequestParams 1
  </Location>

Create the directories /www/asp and /tmp/asp.

Copy the contents of http://webfx.eae.net/download/tabpane102.zip to
'WEBPLAINDIR'/tabpane

Copy the contents of the jscalendar package to 'WEBPLAINDIR'/calendar

=head2 Usage

Now you're ready to go. A usage example has been included. In order to
use the example you need to follow these additional steps:

=over 2

=item * install torrus-plugin-overview


=item * Edit your torrus-siteconfig.pl:

Add the following item to Torrus::Global::treeConfig

=back

    'ovExamples' => {
        'description' => 'Example data for overview',
        'xmlfiles' => [
            'defaults.xml',
            'ovDefaults.xml',
            'examples/ovExample.xml',
        ],
        'run' => { 'collector' => 1, 'monitor' => 1 } },

Also add the following lines:

    %Torrus::Renderer::styling =
        ( 'default' => {'stylesheet' => 'torrus.css',
                        'ovStylesheet' => 'ov.css',
                       },
          'printer' => {'stylesheet' => 'torrus-printer.css',
                        'ovStylesheet' => 'ov-printer.css',
                       },
         );

    $Torrus::Renderer::Chooser::template = 'ov/ov-chooser.html';


=over 2

=item * run the collector

Wait a few minutes for it to create all RRDs and collect some data.

=item * Enjoy!

You can access the sample menu at: http://your-server/menu/sampleMenu.xml


=back

=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Christian Schnidrig
E<lt>christian.schnidrig@bluewin.chE<gt>
