
#  xmlconfig.pod - Torrus configuration guide
#  Copyright (C) 2002  Stanislav Sinyagin
#  Copyright (C) 2003  Christian Schnidrig
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

# $Id$
# Christian Schnidrig <christian.schnidrig@bluewin.ch>
#
#

=head1 Http Collector Plugin


=head2 Introduction

This plugin adds the http collector type. It can get and parse web pages
using the GET method.


=head2 Installation

Follow the Torrus installation guide for the main software installation.

Unpack the plugin distribution package in some directory:

  gzip -dc tp-httpcollector-1.X.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Then run the Torrus plugin installation utility:

  torrus install_plugin tp-httpcollector-1.X

Restart all Torrus processes, including Apache HTTP daemon.

That is all, now you can use the parameters described below in your XML
configuration.

The plugin distribution adds the following files that you can use in
your setup:

=over 4

=item * F<vendor/apache.httpd.xml>

Templates for Apache server-status checking, for Apache versions 1.0 and 2.0.

=item * F<examples/localhost-apache1.xml>, F<examples/localhost-apache2.xml>

Sample configurations for Apache server-status, Apache version 1.0 and 2.0
correspondingly. The statistics are placed into C<localhost/HTTP_Stats>
subtree.

=back

=head2 XML configuration parameters

=over 4

=item * C<collector-type>

New value C<http> is supported by this plugin.

=item * C<http-url>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=http>.

=item * C<http-timeout>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=http>.

=item * C<http-object>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=http>. Specifies an object to look for in the
web page.The object is an RPN expression containing search-items.
A search-item takes the following form:

	lineNumber:/pattern/

LineNumber my be a number or *, * means treat the whole web page as one
single line. The pattern is a regular expression and must contain a ().
The value between () will be replaced in the RPN before it is evaluated.

=back

=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Christian Schnidrig
E<lt>christian.schnidrig@bluewin.chE<gt>
