

# $Id$
#
#

=head1 Raw Export Collector Plugin


=head2 Introduction

The Raw Export plugin implments a new storage type for Torrus.
It allows exporting the raw collected data in plain files.
Currently the counter values are exported without changes, and
in the future there will be support for exporting counter increments.

The data is exported in text form, one datasource per line.
Each line contains three fields, separated by the characters defined
by C<raw-field-separator> parameter:

=over 4

=item * Timestamp

The timestamp of the collected data, in format defined
by C<raw-timestamp-format> parameter.

=item * Row ID

A text string that identifies the datasource. It is defined by C<raw-rowid>
parameter in the datasource leaf.

=item * Collected value

The last field is the value that was collected. It may be a very large integer
in case if the datasource is a 64-bit counter.

=back


The raw export files are written by a background thread, leaving the main
thread more time to perform the collecting work. The C<torrus schedulerinfio>
reports the size of the raw update queue in runtime statistics.


=head2 Installation

Follow the Torrus installation guide for the main software installation.
This plugin requires the multithreading support in Torrus. It would not
function in a non-multithreaded environment.

Unpack the plugin distribution package in some directory:

  gzip -dc tp-rawexport-1.X.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Then run the Torrus plugin installation utility:

  torrus install_plugin tp-rawexport-1.X

Restart Torrus collector processes.


=head2 Configuration

In order to get use of Raw export, the C<storage-type> parameter should
contain C<raw> as one of the comma-separated values. Usually
C<storage-type> is set to the value C<raw,rrd>.

Also the datasource leaf must have the following parameters defined:

=over 4

=item * C<raw-datadir>

The directory where the raw export files are stored.

=item * C<raw-file>

The export file name. It can contain any strftime(3) conversion characters,
but the percent sign (C<%>) should be replaced with hash sign (C<#>).

=item * C<raw-field-separator>

Field separator inside the export line.

=item * C<raw-timestamp-format>

Timestamp format in strftime(3) notation, with the percent sign
(C<%>) replaced with hash sign (C<#>).

=item * C<raw-rowid>

A string that uniquely identifies the datasource.

=back


=head2 Example

The following XML template is installed as F<examples/rawexport-example.xml>
by the plugin installer. It provides basic functionality for exporting of
IF-MIB counters. The example refers to a parameter C<raw-file-suffix> which
is not part of this plugin, and is given only as an example. The
discovery instruction (DDX) file listed below defines this parameter at
the host level. 

Note that your templates should also declare the parameters as expandable,
as given in the eample below.

It is important that C<raw-file> depends on C<collector-instance>. It
ensures that several collector instances for a given tree would never write
to the same file concurrently.

This example stores the data in files that depend on the calendar date.
This makes them convenient to grab for daily processing.
For example, at 3:00 every morning you can move all the files that
are more than 2 hours old for further processing. Also their
alphabetical sorting would list them in temporal order.



File: F<examples/rawexport-example.xml>

 <configuration>

   <param-properties>
     <prop param="raw-file"       prop="expand" value="1"/>
     <prop param="raw-rowid"      prop="expand" value="1"/>
   </param-properties>

   <datasources>

     <template name="raw-defaults-ifoctets-examle">
  
       <param name="raw-datadir" value="/srv/torrus/raw" />
       <param name="raw-file"
              value="#Y-#m-#d.%collector-instance%.%raw-file-suffix%" />
       <param name="raw-field-separator" value="," />
       <param name="raw-timestamp-format" value="#d#b#Y:#H:#M:#S" />
       <param name="raw-rowid" value="%system-id%,%interface-name%,%rrd-ds%" />
    
     </template>
  
   </datasources>

 </configuration>


The following is a fragment of a Devdiscover instructions file (DDX)
which sets up the raw export for input and output byte counters,
for all interfaces whose names start with 'eth':

  <host>
    <param name="snmp-host" value="mylinuxhost"/>

    <param name="include-files" value="examples/rawexport-example.xml"/>
    <param name="custom-host-templates" value="raw-defaults-ifoctets-examle"/>
    <param name="host-copy-params" value="raw-file-suffix"/>
    <param name="raw-file-suffix" value="rawexport"/>

    <param name="selectors"            value="raw"/>
    <param name="raw-selector-type"    value="RFC2863_IF_MIB"/>
    <param name="raw-selector-expr"    value="{ifSubtreeName}"/>
    <param name="raw-ifSubtreeName"    value="^eth"/>
    <param name="raw-selector-actions"
                             value="InBytesParameters,OutBytesParameters"/>
    <param name="raw-InBytesParameters-arg"
                             value="storage-type=raw,rrd"/>    
    <param name="raw-OutBytesParameters-arg"
                             value="storage-type=raw,rrd"/>    
  </host>

