#  Copyright (C) 2002  Stanislav Sinyagin
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

# Stanislav Sinyagin <ssinyagin@yahoo.com>
#
#

=head1 Cisco Class-based QoS discovery and collection plugin

Status: Released; Last modified: 03-MAY-2004

=head2 Introduction

DiffServ-based quality of service is being deployed in many networks
these days, and the choice of management systems able to monitor QoS
parameters is too narrow.

Cisco IOS provides QoS statistics in its CISCO-CLASS-BASED-QOS-MIB.
This MIB is far too complex for a regular SNMP collector. 

The C<cbqos> Torrus plugin provides a complete solution for automated
SNMP discovery and collection for QoS objects on Cisco routers.
It is the first open source solution of this kind.

Other existing tools for QoS monitoring are:

=over 4

=item * C<genRtrConfig> by Francois Mikus (http://www.acktomic.com).

This tool is an add-on to Cricket (http://cricket.sourceforge.net).
It provides discovery and statistics for non-hierarchical classmaps counters:
pre-policy, post-policy, and drop counters.

=back


=head2 Installation

Follow the Torrus installation guide for the main software installation.

Unpack the plugin distribution package in some directory:

  gzip -dc tp-cisco-cbqos-1.X.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Then run the Torrus plugin installation utility:

  torrus install_plugin tp-cisco-cbqos-1.X

Restart all Torrus processes, including Apache HTTP daemon.


=head2 Usage

Use your Torrus the usual way: C<devdiscover> will automatically find
QoS objects on your routers, C<compilexml> will find the required
templates, and C<collector> will initialize all required tables and
will start collecting data.

B<Note:> QoS is a software feature, and there's no means to determine
that the configuration has changed. You need to re-run C<devdiscover>
and C<compilexml> whenever your QoS configuration changes.
As usual, the collector will automatically detect the router reload
or Torrus configuration change, and re-initialize its tables.

=head2 Tunable parameters

The following parameters may be specified in C<devdiscover> input XML:

=over 4

=item * C<CiscoIOS_cbQoS::persistent-indexing>

Set this to C<yes> if the router is configured with C<snmp mib persist
cbqos>.  This will reduce the CPU load during the polling cycles, and
also will allow polling some types of objects that were unavailable with
dynamic indexing.

=item * C<CiscoIOS_cbQoS::red-dscp-values>

Optional. Comma-separated list of DSCP values to be used for WRED
statistics. Symbolic names like C<AF31> or C<EF> are recognized.
When specified, it overrides the default list defined in
C<@Torrus::DevDiscover::CiscoIOS_cbQoS::RedDscpValues> in F<cbqos-config.pl>
or in F<devdiscover-siteconfig.pl>.

=item * C<CiscoIOS_cbQoS::classmaps-only>

Optional. When set to C<yes>, only classmap statistics are set for collection.
Suppressed are statistics for match statements, queueing, RED, shaping,
and policying. This significantly reduces the size of datasource tree,
amount of SNMP queries, and collector execution time.

=item * C<CiscoIOS_cbQoS::suppress-match-statements>

Optional. When set to C<yes>, disables the match statement statistics.
These statistics usually don't bring much of additional information.
Besides, in some IOS versions they are almost always not updated (known
for: 12.2(15)T7, ...).

=item * C<CiscoIOS_cbQoS::suppress-dropnobuf>

Optional. When set to C<yes>, disables classmap Dropped No Buffer statistics.

=back

=head2 Implementation details

CISCO-CLASS-BASED-QOS-MIB uses complex indexing for statistics objects:

=over 4

=item 1

C<cbQosPolicyIndex> in C<cbQosServicePolicyTable> is found by matching
6 values: C<cbQosIfType>, C<cbQosPolicyDirection>, C<cbQosIfIndex>,
C<cbQosFrDLCI>, C<cbQosAtmVPI>, C<cbQosAtmVCI>

=item 2

Use C<cbQosPolicyIndex> to access the C<cbQosObjectsTable>, and find the
C<cbQosObjectsIndex> and C<cbQosConfigIndex> assigned to the QoS feature.

=item 3

Use C<cbQosConfigIndex> to access configuration tables
(C<cbQosxxxCfgTable>) for information about the feature.

=item 4

Use C<cbQosPolicyIndex> and C<cbQosObjectsIndex> to access QoS statistics
tables (C<cbQosxxxStatsTable>) for information about the QoS feature.

=back

The plugin introduces a special Torrus collector type, "cisco-cbqos".

Each Torrus datasource is identified by Service Policy, QoS Feature, and
associated SNMP objects type.

The following parameters identify the Service Policy:

 cbqos-direction =>
   "input"
   "output"

 cbqos-interface-name (mapping to IF-MIB interface index)

 cbqos-interface-type =>
   "mainInterface"
   "subInterface"
   "frDLCI" =>
     cbqos-fr-dlci
   "atmPVC" =>
     cbqos-atm-vpi
     cbqos-atm-vci


The following parameters identify the QoS Feature:

 cbqos-object-type =>
   "policymap"
   "classmap" =>
     cbqos-class-map-name
   "matchStatement" =>
     cbqos-match-statement-name
   "queueing" =>
     cbqos-queueing-bandwidth
   "randomDetect"
   "trafficShaping" =>
     cbqos-shaping-rate
   "police" =>
     cbqos-police-rate

SNMP objects are defined in regular Torrus XML templates. Collector
substitutes C<POL> and C<OBJ> strings in C<snmp-object> parameter with
the current values of policy and object index correspondingly.

Development of this plugin was sponsored by Cablecom GmbH.

=head2 Recommendations for Cisco ASR 9000

The following configuration commands are recommended for Cisco ASR9K in
order to optimize the polling:

    snmp-server ifindex persist
    snmp mib persist cbqos

The following discovery parameters are recommended for corresponding DDX files:

    <param name="CiscoIOS::ifindex-persist" value="yes"/>
    <param name="CiscoIOS_cbQoS::persistent-indexing" value="yes"/>
    <param name="CiscoIOS_cbQoS::suppress-dropnobuf" value="yes"/>
    <param name="CiscoIOS_cbQoS::suppress-match-statements" value="yes"/>

cbQosCMNoBufDropPkt and match statement statistics are not supported in
ASR9k, so it's better to disable them, otherwise the collector will
issue warnings.

=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2004 Stanislav Sinyagin E<lt>ssinyagin@yahoo.comE<gt>
