#  xmlconfig.pod - Torrus configuration guide
#  Copyright (C) 2002  Stanislav Sinyagin
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

# Stanislav Sinyagin <ssinyagin@yahoo.com>
#
#

=head1 Random Collector Plugin


=head2 Introduction

This plugin adds the new collector type. It actually doesn't collect anything,
but generates randomly generated values. The main purpose of this plugin is
testing various aspects of Torrus, and particularly
its modular Collector design.


=head2 Installation

Follow the Torrus installation guide for the main software installation.

Unpack the plugin distribution package in some directory:

  gzip -dc tp-randomcollector-1.X.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Then run the Torrus plugin installation utility:

  torrus install_plugin tp-randomcollector-1.X

Restart all Torrus processes, including Apache HTTP daemon.

That is all, now you can use the parameters described below in your XML
configuration.

C<genrandomcfg> utility may be used to create a typical configuration for
the random collector. 

=head2 XML configuration parameters

=over 4

=item * C<collector-type>

New value C<random> is supported by this plugin.

=item * C<rnd-baseline-type>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=random>. Values supported: C<sin> (Sine
baseline curve), C<flat> (horizontal baseline).

=item * C<rnd-baseline-height>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=random>. Specifies the constant baseline
height above the X axis.

=item * C<rnd-amplitude>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=random>. Specifies the amplitude of the
random value.

=item * C<rnd-baseline-period>, C<rnd-baseline-offset>,
C<rnd-baseline-amplitude>

Mandatory when C<collector-type=random> and
C<rnd-baseline-type=sin>. These options determine the parameters of the
sine curve: C<Y = height + amplitude * sin( 2*pi*(TIME+offset)/period )>

=back

=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Stanislav Sinyagin E<lt>ssinyagin@yahoo.comE<gt>
